<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>KDE User's Manual</title>
<author><personname>
<firstname>Ben</firstname>
<surname>Burton</surname>
</personname><email>bab@debian.org</email></author>
<date>May 25, 2005</date>
<productname>K Desktop Environment</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kig</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kig</command></refname>
<refpurpose>an interactive geometry program for &kde;</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kig</command>
<group choice="opt"><option>-c, --convert-to-native</option>
<group choice="opt"><option>-o, --outfile <replaceable>filename</replaceable></option>
</group>
</group>
<arg choice="opt">KDE Generic Options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">Qt Generic Options</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>&kig; is an application for interactive geometry.  It is intended to
serve two purposes:</para>
<itemizedlist><listitem><para>To allow students to interactively explore
mathematical figures and concepts using the computer;</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>To serve as a WYSIWYG tool for drawing mathematical figures and
including them in other documents.</para></listitem></itemizedlist>
<para>With this program you can do geometry on a computer just like you
would on a blackboard in a classroom.  However the program allows you to
move and change parts of a geometrical drawing so that you can see how other
parts change as a result.</para>
<para>&kig; supports loci and user-defined macros.  It also imports and
exports both to and from foreign file formats including
<application>Cabri</application>, <application>Dr. Geo</application>,
&kgeo;, <application>KSeg</application> and <application>XFig</application>.</para>
<para>This application is part of the official &kde; edutainment module.</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>
<para>App options, in a variablelist</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c, --convert-to-native</option></term>
<listitem><para>Do not show a &GUI;.  Instead convert the specified file to
native &kig; format.  The native &kig; file will be written to standard
output unless <option>--outfile</option> is passed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-o, --outfile <replaceable>filename</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Used with <option>--convert-to-native</option> to specify
where to save the newly created &kig; file.  Not specifying this option, or
providing a filename of <filename>-</filename> will output the file to
standard output.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/kig">help:/kig</ulink>
(either enter this <acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/kig</parameter></userinput>).</para>

<para>There is also further information available at the <ulink
url="http://edu.kde.org/kig/">&kde; Edutainment website</ulink>.</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para>&kig; was written by
<personname><firstname>Dominique</firstname><surname>Devriese</surname></personname>
<email>devriese@kde.org</email>,
<personname><firstname>Maurizio</firstname><surname>Paolini</surname></personname>
<email>paolini@dmf.bs.unicatt.it</email>,
<personname><firstname>Franco</firstname><surname>Pasquarelli</surname></personname>
<email>pasqui@dmf.bs.unicatt.it</email>,
<personname><firstname>Pino</firstname><surname>Toscano</surname></personname>
<email>toscano.pino@tiscali.it</email>, and others.</para>
<para>This man page based on the one prepared for Debian by
<personname><firstname>Ben</firstname><surname>Burton</surname></personname>
<email>bab@debian.org</email>.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
